The Joe Rogan.
Experience, but it pays a little bit more of a price.
I think every time you do it towards the end,
this is the thought about Tony and the gaci fight that look, I was saying,
it' pretty gangster. They decided to make weight anyway. But then people that,
you know, like Dana said this, a couple other people said this, like,
why would you do that? Doesn't make sense when you know,
you're gonna have to make that.
Again. I mean, I talked to,
I talked to Tony yesterday and he said it has had nothing to do with the weight.
I'm sure his loss had nothing to do with the weight. I'm sure.
He, you know, look, he fought well. Yeah,
but he had to have felt something from draining his body
just a couple weeks ago. It, we know it didn't we know it didn't.
I don't mean to interrupt you. We know it didn't help him. Right, right, right.
We know that. Exactly. We know it didn't help.
Him. Justin just fought a, an awesome fight, man. That's.
True too. That's fair. That's true too.
Cuz this is the thing's like Tony took an inhuman amount of punishment, but his,
his cardio is so much better than everyone else's.
Even when he is getting robbed to a ridiculous extent, you, everyone knows like,
you know, better than anybody.
How hard it is to breathe when you're getting hurt.
If you're getting hurt and you're stunned,
that's when your cardio goes out the window through the.
People. When you get, when you get clipped it,
that drain energy more than anything, your cardio goes through the window. His,
his cardio never went away. He was fine.
He's already training. He was training today. He was dancing in.
The dancing in the emergency room. No.
He is ready to go back. He's taken this loss. Like it gave me the chills,
listening to him talk last night. Yeah. Like we were talking. I'm like he,
his championship only that's in his losses too.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> cause he's like, listen, he goes, everybody out,
everybody in the world is, uh, is suffering financially.
And I got to go in there and make a whole bunch of money and my family secure.
So wow. I lost technically. Wow. But I won in life. Yeah. That' true.
I'm winning. So I'm just ready to go back and do it again. Hey Eddie, Ken,
like he seriously feels great. That's.
Can I ask you this without you getting upset at me when I was watching it and I
don't know Tony, like you do,
and obviously you you're one of the greatest justsu coaches all the time.
But when I was watching it in the fourth or definitely in the fifth,
I would've thrown in the towel.
That crossed my mind, but I would've never done it, but I, I thought, man,
it was, it was uh, cause I know you listen, listen, I know you listen, listen,
I have question never. I have never been a head MMA coach ever in my life.
Never wanted to be, never wanted to be. And I never, even to this day,
I've never been. That's not me. I 'm not Trevor Whitman. That guy's amazing.
I'm not uh, Greg Jackson, duke Rufus.
That's a that's that's a whole nother level head coach.
That's the guy that should be talking to the fighter. That's sitting down.
I never I'm. I'm the wide receiver coach.
I'm the guy that just throws in on the side. Like, you know,
especially in a standup, in a standup fight.
I shouldn't have been micd cuz I knew this was gonna be a stand up fight.
If the fight was gonna go to the ground. If it was a cabib fight. Yeah.
Maybe there's gonna be a lot of groundwork. Yeah. Maybe it makes sense. Uh,
for television to mic me. But whenever mikeing me up, I'm like,
I I'm just there for emotional support. Cause it's gonna be a standup war. Yeah.
Tony never. He hasn't had to take down in five years.
He never takes anybody down. The last take down he got was Gleas and Deba.
Think about that. He doesn't take,
he goes out there and you know what he does when a fight,
when the fight ends up on the ground, it's like from a scramble,
someone took him down, Kevin Lee takes him down.
That's where his jutatistic comes in. We knew it was gonna,
we were preparing for Kaib this whole time,
which he was gonna try to stay on his obviously and, and, and do this thing.
And all of a sudden, two weeks before the fight, when it was April 18th, uh,
we get the opposite of could be such a dangerous and not only the opposite in,
in strategy, but the opposite and probably the heaviest handed, lightweight,
maybe ever the most dangerous matchup for Tony, the most dangerous eat lights,
be people up with one shot. Yeah. So not even for one second,
did the camp thing. Oh, we got this one in the bag from day one from day one.
So hold on, how finish this? Please. Let me finish this real quick.
Let me get this off my chest. Um,
so the whole time we're we're training for a certain strategy.
Now we got two weeks now, now it's Justin Gay with the smart thing. Uh,
the B to do a totally changed Tony's style or say, it.
Let's let's try to outbox this guy. Do Tony, Tony wanted to strike.
Tony was like, I'm gonna go out there. And, and I'll outbox him.
That was the plan. Uh, nobody said a hundred percent. It was gonna work.
You know what I mean? So, um, and it was weird. It was everything about that.
That,
that whole fight was weird when <affirmative> you get there and there's nobody
in the, in the arena and it's super quiet.
I've been to about 150 UFCs I've cornered a bunch of fighters in the UFC.
It was the weirdest thing. And the, and the, the,
one of the weirdest things was, um, in between the first round and second round,
uh, they only allowed one coaching, right? Yes. And they said,
who's it gonna be? I was the first one to say, not me. Like,
I don't wanna be the, I'm not the MMA head coach.
It's gotta be the striking coach that goes in there. Everybody agreed for sure.
I'm like, I'm not gonna be, it's always gotta be the striking coach,
the head coach, the guy that talks to him.
I'm just the guy that offers suggestions. I've never been,
never wanted to be never tried to be. So, um, uh, Billy or Rashad.
Those are those Rasha is his Holloway. Yeah.
Rashat Holloways his boxing coach and Billy is his mu Thai coach.
So one of them went in I'm on the outside. I had nothing to say.
All I could say was Tony, you're looking good.
That's it did E you know what I mean? Did,
did either of them consider throwing the towel? No, we didn't talk about it.
I just had it in my head. I didn't talk about it, but this what happened.
So then the second, and then, um,
the first round in my eyes at the, at the event, I thought, okay,
that could have went either way. Okay. Second round at the very end,
with two seconds left. He, he clips Justin. So after two rounds, I'm thinking,
okay, now it's gonna start to turn around. So at that point,
after the second round, he knocked him down. If he would at 30 seconds,
who knows where, what the, what would, who knows? But then at that point,
now it's the third round. We're like, okay, man, maybe he's gonna,
Tony's gonna turn it around. Like he always does. So at that point it was,
we weren't like thinking, okay, we gotta take him down or anything like that.
But after that fourth round, it was, it was looking like, oh.
And right when the bell rung, after the fourth round,
Rasha turns around and goes, Eddie, get in there. And I'm like,
I wasn't ready for it, man. Oh, I wasn't ready to walk in there.
So I walked in there going, what the am I? I'm not a MMA head coach.
This is the fourth round. He's hurt. And plus dude,
my car got broken into last week. They stole my glasses. I always,
I need my asses. I'm I'm pretty blind with your glasses. So I didn't really,
I didn't realize how, how cut up he was until I walked up to him like, okay,
I'm supposed to give him advice. This wide receiver coach, like I'm the raw,
like, I, it was a mistake for me to go in there. Not a bad idea for you to go.
It was a mistake. Draw the half guard. So I was like, at this point at the,
I thought maybe that's pulling guard or doing some mmineary roles works
in the beginning when it's fresh. Like the way Ryan Hall got BJ. Penn. Yes.
Remember Ryan Hall. Bjpen yeah, it was early. Yeah. He went for emmineary role.
He was fresh. He leglocked him. If, if we're gonna do something like that,
we have to strategize for that. The whole camp, not just like, Hey, so I'm,
I'm in there going at this point. He's hurt. He's cut up.
Lot of things are swirling through my head and I'm thinking, oh my God,
what the hell? What is the best advice here? It's like, what is this qu,
I need help here. I froze. And it's so quiet. It's so quiet. You know,
you there's no energy. Well, usually you're like, dude,
you gotta take this down, you know? But it's so quiet. It's so quiet.
Everyone's like, you know, you're talking low. It was just so weird.
You're almost self-conscious.
Yeah. Brian co just walked in the room. Brian co just please let him finish.
Cause he is in the middle of describing him'm so into.
It. The corner, Tony Ferguson. I'm almost done. I'm almost done. No. Keep going,
keep going. So I, I walk in,
the first thing I notice is he's cut up more than I can see from the corner.
From my point, I couldn't tell he had a big cut under his right eye.
And at that point, that's my brother, man. That's my brother. I'm thinking like,
like maybe the best thing to do is stay on the outside for the fifth round and
just get through this with no more damage.
I was thinking maybe cuz if he tries to shoot now and he's really tired and he's
he's it could be, he could catch a knee coming in. I'm thinking what,
what kind of advice? And then I just said, you might want to try an iari,
but I don't know. I don't know. I froze. I didn't,
I don't think you froze cause that's not bad advice.
Everything else wasn't working.
I I've never been in that situation ever before in my life.
And I don't wanna be, I'm not the guy for that. I don't, think'm the, I froze.
I'm not the guy after that. I shouldn't have been in there.
I'm always on the side when I'm in the corner, I'm always on the side.
You know what I mean? Just to I'll throw a little, little, uh,
emotional support. I'm not going to the most important thing for a fighter.
I've been in this business, getting paid in the MMA business since 2000,
I've seen fighters come and go. I work for the UFC for eight years.
Been to about 150 UFCs. I've seen everybody come and go. I know my raw.
I'm not I' yourself enough. Credit'm not, I'm not duke Rufus.
You're not giving yourself enough credit. Those guys they're on another level.
I am just, Hey, if he takes you down, get that over hook and hit that triangle.
But this is me, that it, but.
You're a fantastic jujitsu coach.
But I think you're also smart enough to know where your strengths lie and it's
in the jujitsu. That's a good thing, man. That's a healthy thing.
But you sh you sh for sure have an understanding of how to coach someone in MMA.
The thing is there's like levels, right? There's like for us a hobby,
Matt Hume level, the wizards of tech geek. Andstrategy that's not me. Yeah.
Those are different guys.
But those guys aren't Eddie when it comes to jujijitsu.
No, they're not. They're not. No, the, but yeah,
but that's the point it's like to be.
And both of them are very talented on the ground. By the way,
Matt Hume was a wizard. Amazing.
Amazing was.
When the Madhu was also a legit striker. Mm-hmm <affirmative> very,
very much true. I worse than her than, you know, when Matt.
Hum was on, on top of his game. Oh, he was amazing.
He was an incredible fighter. He was way ahead of his time. Amazing.
But, but if I want, if it went to the ground and he had straight technical hail,
Mary trying to finish the guy, Eddie would be my guy of.
Of course. Yes, of course I not giving yourself no credit.
But thing is the thing about both those guys that we just,
they know the whole game. They know the whole game for us. Us is very good.
Atstriking the best. Very.
The, not, I don't know if you guys remember, uh, last year at PFL um,
the first round fighters fight twice in the same night. Oh yeah. Remember that?
That's right. Yes.
And Vinny magolia pulled guard in both of his fights early in the fight
and tapped the guys out real quick. Real of course. Right? Yeah. Real quick,
real quick. It goes guard. But, but you set it up and you work on it. Yes.
You know, we Tony's a Rikker man. He wants to take your head off.
You know what I mean? Yes' such beast. So, so,
and then what happened in Vinny's fight? In the final of the tournament,
he got really tired. You know, he was really tired at the end.
He was trying to pull guard at the end,
but he didn't have the energy to pull guard. You know what I'm saying?
He takes a lot, the finals, he gotta set it up. It's like a takedown. He had,
he.
Set it up. Had he fought earlier that night in the finals <affirmative>.
No, no, no. He, it it't like the, the, the finals were like months later. Oh.
And.
It was only one fight.
He got tired in that fight. Mm-hmm.
<Affirmative> in that fight. And he was trying to pull guard.
He couldn't strike the guy. He was tired and there was no,
he was trying to pull guard, but he wasn't even close.
He'd like land on his butt with no clench. And uh, I forget who we fights,
but he would just walk away. Look at, he's got his back. This is it. His back.
This is it. This is it. Oh man. 20 seconds.
Uh Tony's story's not over. There's so many good mans. No, no.
And one win one win. He's right there. Well, how about that?
You have to take into consideration the fact that he didn't really get a full
chance to game plan for a guy's dangerous as Justin and prepare for him. Yeah.
There's gonna be a reason.
Eventually they'll be a rematch it and the training camp's gonna be different.
But, but here's the one thing we,
we could look back at this as a blessing in disguise in one way,
because originally Tony and Connor was the fight,
but then Connor loses toabib and then now it's Tony and con and cabib was the
fight. Now, since they're both coming off losses right now,
Tony Kaib makes the most sense right now. Can you imagine that?
You mean Tony and.
Connor? Oh yeah, yeah, no. Connor's coming off. Win too.
Thoughm I know Tony and.
Connor. I'm sorry. No, Connor's coming off a win cowboy.
Oh, that's right. That's right. That's okay. Okay. But still,
it still makes sense because.
Makes sense. He did lose it. It makes sense. Cuz it's hard to pitch a,
a con cabib fight right now. It's like, it's hard to pitch that. No,
gaci's right there. Gay's right there.
But depending what cabib wants to do in his dad and bad health,
if he's out for a little longer, then he can do GAE Connor. That's true.
How about, how about gay cabib and Tony Connor. Same car.
Oh my God. Super bold. Oh my God. People sleep people. That's perfect.
That's that's amazing. Come on. How crazy that like new year's Eve or something,
you know what, but you're alsogetting cabibconnor ridiculous. Oh my God.
That would be the greatest to it right now.
And then the winners about fighting the winner of each fighting, an amazing car.
Tony, Tony versus tournament.
And gaci versus cabibbe on this everybody's head explode worldwide,
worldwide simultaneously. There's some,
there's some other dark courses for Tony that like, uh, uh,
Dustin poiers right there. Charles William. Yeah.
Charles Loro impresses me as much as anybody me do do
when he strike Kevin Lee, I was like, this is crazy.
This striking's gotten so much better. Downment staying on the outside.